---
layout: post
date: 2017-03-30
title: Project Kojack
---

# Exploring Object Segmentation and Neural Style Transfer
## Object Segmentation

## Neural Style Transfer

A lot of work has already been done with Style Transfer. 
In fact, in my experience reading and learning about machine learning and deep learning techniques, there are so many things that have been done very well by teams all over the world.
Neural netowrk models are trained much better than a single practitioner can hope to make. I don't think many, such as myself, would have the resources to train a model as efficient.
My process then would be to utilize trained models for novel purposes. 

I first explored and implemented DeepMask, SharpMask, and Multipathnet. These are repositories written by Facebooks AI Research (FAIR) and are open to the public.
DeepMask/SharpMask segments images on a pixel by pixel level and groups them into objects. Sharpmask refines the segmentation.
Multipathnet classifies objects in their distinct segments. 
The final output is a series of objects in an image with their distinct labels. 
This is actually, pretty cool as is and has so many applications. The difficulty with implementing this is using lua or Torch to do the processing.
I ended up making a python wrapper to interact with DeepMask/SharpMask and Mulitpathnet.

A lot of my effort was spent getting the masked images out of Torch and into Python. The torch images were saved as ByteTensors and that made things difficult.
I was able to install the Torch package for python and extract each mask from the tensor. In the end I had a mask of 0's where the mask didn't see an object and 1's where it did.

Once that was done I decided to look into novel uses. And one thing that I've been facinated by was the use of style transfer. 
This uses convolutional neural networks (CNN) to extract the "style" and "content" of two images. 
It uses a pretrained CNN and avoids what are known as the fully connected layers--which are useful for object classification.
